“However, in each case you have to consider how it ends in the end, because for many people Zeus only granted happiness and then plunged them into ruin.” \n— Solon to Croesus, when Croesus asked, why he compared his happiness with that of ordinary people (Herodotus, “The Histories”, I. 32 )
“Work is not a shame: idleness is a shame. But if you work, the idlers will soon envy you when you become rich, for fame and prestige come with wealth. And whatever your fate, work is the best for you.“ \n— Hesiod (“Works and Days“, 311-314)
“In every tyrant's heart there springs in the end this poison, that he cannot trust a friend.” \n— Aeschylus (“Prometheus Bound”, 224–225)
”Now let us go forward, whether we shall give glory to another, or another to us!” \n— Sarpedon, a participant of the Trojan war(“The Iliad“ book 12, 325-330)
“It is thrifty to prepare today for the wants of tomorrow.” \n— Aesop (“The Ant and the Grasshopper”)
“Union gives strength.” \n— Aesop (“The Bundle of Sticks”)
“Never trust advice from a man in the throes of his own difficulty.” \n— Aesop (“The Fox and the Goat”)
“Self-conceit may lead to self-destruction.” \n— Aesop (“The Frog and the Ox”)
“Enemies' promises were made to be broken.” \n— Aesop (“The Nurse and the Wolf”)
“Any excuse will serve a tyrant.” \n— Aesop (“The Wolf and the Lamb”)
“Spartans do not ask how many, only where the enemy are.” \n— Agis II of Sparta (Plutarch, “Moralia”, “Sayings of Spartans”, 215d)
“Sex and sleep alone make me conscious that I am mortal.” \n— Alexander the Great, implying that both weariness and pleasure arise from one and the same natural weakness (Plutarch, “Parallel Lives”, “Alexander”, sec. 22)
“Glorious are the deeds of those who undergo labor and run the risk of danger; and it is delightful to live a life of valor and to die leaving behind immortal glory.” \n— Alexander the Great, addressing his troops (Arrian, “The Anabasis of Alexander”, 5.26)
“To the strongest!” \n— Alexander the Great, on his death bed, when asked who should succeed him as king (Arrian, “The Anabasis of Alexander”, 7.26)
“I do not steal victory.” \n— Alexander the Great, when suggested to raid the Persians at night (Plutarch, “Parallel Lives”, “Alexander”, sec. 31)
“Written laws are like spiders' webs; they will catch, it is true, the weak and poor, but will be torn in pieces by the rich and powerful.” \n— Anacharsis (Plutarch, “Parallel Lives”, “Solon”, sec. 5)
“The fox knows many tricks; the hedgehog one good one.” \n— Archilochus (fragment 201)
“Give me a place to stand, and I shall move the world.” \n— Archimedes, on his usage of the lever (Diodorus Siculus, “The Library of History”, fragments of book XXVI, sec. 18)
“It is from their foes, not their friends, that cities learn the lesson of building high walls and ships of war.” \n— Aristophanes (“Birds”)
“Man is by nature a political animal.” \n— Aristotle (“Politics”, I. 1253a.2)
“Both oligarch and tyrant mistrust the people, and therefore deprive them of their arms.” \n— Aristotle (“Politics, V. 1311a.11)
“In my nineteenth year, on my own initiative and at my own expense, I raised an army with which I liberated the state, which was oppressed by the tyranny of a faction.” \n— Augustus, in his autobiography (“Res Gestae Divi Augusti”, sec. 1)
“Choose the course which you adopt with deliberation; but when you have adopted it, then persevere in it with firmness.” \n— Bias of Priene (Diogenes Laertius, “The Lives and Opinions of Eminent Philosophers”, “Bias”, sec. 5)
“Woe to the Defeated!” \n— Brennus, Gaulish chieftain who had seized Rome (with the exception of a garrison on Capitoline Hill). When Camillus arrived from Veii and besieged him, he negotiated his withdrawal for 1000 pounds of gold, but not without using false weights and adding the weight of his sword on the scale when the Romans complained (Polybius, “Histories”, II. 18)
“Set a thief to catch a thief.” \n— Callimachus (“Epigrams”, 44)
“The worst ruler is one who cannot rule himself.” \n— Cato the Elder (Plutarch, “Moralia”, “Sayings of Romans”, 198f)
“Wise men learn more from fools than fools from the wise.” \n— Cato the Elder (Plutarch, “Parallel Lives”, “Cato the Elder”, sec. 9)
“I am a citizen of the world.” \n— Diogenes of Sinope (Diogenes Laertius, “The Lives and Opinions of Eminent Philosophers”, “Diogenes”, sec. 63)
“Yes, stand a little out of my sunshine.” \n— Diogenes of Sinope to Alexander the Great, who asked if he could help in in any way (Plutarch, “Parallel Lives”, “Alexander”, sec. 14)
“Stranger, go tell the Spartans that we lie here, obedient to their laws.” \n— Epitaph at Thermopylae for Leonidas and his men (Herodotus, “The Histories”, VII. 228)
“Cowards do not count in battle; they are there, but not in it.” \n— Euripides (“Meleager”)
“Return with your shield, or on it.” \n— Farewell of Spartan women to their warriors, implying that cowards would throw away their shield in battle to flee (Plutarch, “Moralia”, “Sayings of Spartan Women”, 241f)
“I came, I saw, I conquered.” \n— Caesar, after routing Pharnaces II of Pontus in the first assault (Plutarch, “Parallel Lives”, “Caesar”, sec. 50)
“Men willingly believe what they wish.” \n— Caesar (“De Bello Gallico”, III. 18)
“It is not the well-fed long-haired man I fear, but the pale and the hungry looking.” \n— Caesar (Plutarch, “Parallel Lives”, “Antony”, sec. 11)
“The die is cast.” \n— Caesar, when crossing the Rubicon river with his legion into Italy, a capital offense that led to his civil war against Pompey (Suetonius, “The Lives of the Twelve Caesars”, 32)
“I'd rather be the first man here than the second man in Rome.” \n— Caesar, when passing through a barbarian village in the Alps (Plutarch, “Parallel Lives”, “Caesar”, sec. 11)
“Stop quoting laws, we carry weapons!” \n— Pompey (Plutarch, “Parallel Lives”, “Pompey”, sec. 10)
“War is the father and king of all things: some he has made gods, and some men; some slaves and some free.” \n— Heraclitus (Hippolytus, “The Refutation of all Heresies”, IX. 4)
“You could not step twice into the same river.” \n— Heraclitus (Plato, “Cratylus”, 402a)
“In soft regions are born soft men.” \n— Herodotus (“The Histories”, IX. 122)
“This is the bitterest pain among men, to have much knowledge but no power.” \n— Herodotus (“The Histories”, IX. 16)
“It is sweet and honorable to die for one's country.” \n— Horace (“Odes”, III., ode II., 13)
“In peace the sons bury their fathers, but in war the fathers bury their sons.” \n— Croesus, king of Lydia (Herodotus, “The Histories”, I. 87)
“Marry a good man, and bear good children.” \n— Leonidas, to his wife who asked what to do if he died, before he left for Thermopylae (Plutarch, “Moralia”, “Sayings of Spartans”, 225a)
“Come and get them!” \n— Leonidas, to the Persian messenger who demanded that he and his men lay down their arms (Plutarch, “Moralia”, “Sayings of Spartans”, 225c)
“A city is well-fortified which has a wall of men instead of brick.” \n— Lycurgus of Sparta (Plutarch, “Parallel Lives”, “Lycurgus”, sec. 19)
“No one is so old as to think that he cannot live one more year.” \n— Cicero (“On Old Age”, sec. 24)
“Endless money forms the sinews of war.” \n— Cicero (“Philippics”, V., sec. 5)
“Laws are silent in time of war.” \n— Cicero (“Pro Milone”, IV., sec. 11)
“The man who runs may fight again.” \n— Menander (“Monosticha”)
“Whom the Gods love dies young.” \n— Menander (“The Double Deceiver”, fragment 4)
“War is sweet to those who have no experience of it, but the experienced man fears its approach in his heart.” \n— Pindar (fragment 110)
“He \[Alexander] thought nothing invincible for the courageous, and nothing secure for the cowardly.” \n— Plutarch (“Parallel Lives”, “Alexander”, sec. 58)
“When the pirates demanded a ransom of twenty talents for him, Caesar burst out laughing. They did not know, he said, who it was that they had captured, and he volunteered to pay fifty.” \n— Plutarch, who mentions later that Caesar got his money back and had his captors crucified (“Parallel Lives”, “Caesar”, sec. 2)
“None can be free who is a slave to, and ruled by, his passions.” \n— Pythagoras (Stobaeus, “Florilegium”, 18)
“The hour of departure has arrived, and we go our ways – I to die, and you to live. Which is better God only knows.” Socrates, in his defense when trialled for corrupting the youth and not worshipping the proper gods (he later drank hemlock after the death sentence) \n— Plato (“Apology”, 42a)
“Fortune favors the bold.” \n— Terence in a play about a great Athenian admiral (“Phormio”, 203)
“This was the greatest action that happened in all this war, and all others that we have heard of amongst the Greeks, being to the victors most glorious and most calamitous to the vanquished. For they were utterly and at all points defeated, and their sufferings were many. Army and fleet and all they ever had perished, nothing was saved and few of so many ever returned home. Thus ended the Sicilian expedition.” \n— Thucydides (“History of the Peloponnesian War”, VII. 87.6–7)
“Do not trust the horse, Trojans! I fear the Greeks even when they bring gifts.” \n— Virgil (“Aeneid”, II. 48–49)
“If oxen and horses and lions had hands, and could paint, and produce works of art as men do, horses would paint the forms of the gods like horses, and oxen like oxen, and make their God's bodies each in their own image.” \n— Xenophanes (fragment 15)
“That's one small step for a man, one giant leap for mankind.” \n— Neil Armstrong (American Broadcasting Company, July 21, 1969)
“If someone strikes you on the right cheek, turn to him the other also.“ \n— Jesus of Nazareth (Matthew, 5,39)
“I say unto you, Love your enemies, bless them that curse you, do good to them that hate you, and pray for them which despitefully use you, and persecute you“ \n— Jesus of Nazareth (Matthew, 5,43-5,45)
“Never in the field of human conflict was so much owed by so many to so few.“ \n— Winston Churchill (Minutes of the British House of Commons meeting of 20 August 1940)
”Nonviolence is ‘not a resignation from all real fighting against wickedness’. On the contrary, the nonviolence of my conception is a more active and real fight against wickedness than retaliation whose very nature is to increase wickedness.”\n— Mahatma Gandhi (Young India October 8, 1925)
”To be prepared for war is one of the most effectual means of preserving peace.”\n— George Washington (First Annual Address to both Houses of Congress, 8 January 1790)
”As for me, I cease not to advocate peace. It may be on unjust terms, but even so it is more expedient than the justest of civil wars.”\n— Cicero (”Ad Atticum”, VII, XIV, 3)
”Soon you will have forgotten the world, and soon the world will have forgotten you.”\n— Marcus Aurelius (”Meditations”, VII, 21)
”Right action is better than knowledge; but in order to do what is right, we must know what is right.”\n— Charlemagne (Jean-Barthélemy Hauréau, ”De la philosophie scolastique”, p.10)
”As a well-spent day brings happy sleep, so life well used brings happy death.”\n— Leonardo da Vinci (”Prolegomena and General Introduction to the Book on Painting”)
”An army which cannot be reenforced is already defeated.”\n— Napoleon (Jules Bertaut, ”Napoleon: In His Own Words” VIII)
”At the beginning of a campaign it is important to consider whether or not to move forward; but when one has taken the offensive it is necessary to maintain it to the last extremity.”\n— Napoleon (Jules Bertaut, ”Napoleon: In His Own Words” VIII)
”If I had a province to punish, I would let it be governed by philosophers.”\n— Frederick II of Prussia (”A Treasury of divine and useful knowledge”)
”The happiness of men consists in life. And life is in labor.”\n— Leo Tolstoy (”What Is To Be Done?” XXXVIII)
”It must be thoroughly understood that war is a necessity, and that the more readily we accept it, the less will be the ardor of our opponents, and that out of the greatest dangers communities and individuals acquire the greatest glory.”\n— Thucydides (”History of the Peloponnesian War”, I)
”You ask, what is our policy? I will say: It is to wage war, by sea, land and air, with all our might and with all the strength that God can give us: to wage war against a monstrous tyranny, never surpassed in the dark, lamentable catalogue of human crime. That is our policy. You ask, what is our aim? I can answer in one word: It is victory, victory at all costs, victory in spite of all terror, victory, however long and hard the road may be; for without victory, there is no survival.”\n— Winston Churchill (Speech in the House of Commons, 13 May 1940)
”We shall not flag or fail. We shall go on to the end, we shall fight in France, we shall fight on the seas and oceans, we shall fight with growing confidence and growing strength in the air, we shall defend our Island, whatever the cost may be, we shall fight on the beaches, we shall fight on the landing grounds, we shall fight in the fields and in the streets, we shall fight in the hills; we shall never surrender, and even if, which I do not for a moment believe, this Island or a large part of it were subjugated and starving, then our Empire beyond the seas, armed and guarded by the British Fleet, would carry on the struggle, until, in God's good time, the New World, with all its power and might, steps forth to the rescue and the liberation of the Old.”\n— Winston Churchill (Speech in the House of Commons, 4 June 1940)
”The inherent vice of capitalism is the unequal sharing of blessings. The inherent virtue of Socialism is the equal sharing of miseries.”\n— Winston Churchill (Speech in the House of Commons, 22 October 1945)
”Freedom has many difficulties and democracy is not perfect, but we have never had to put a wall up to keep our people in, to prevent them from leaving us. [...] While the wall is the most obvious and vivid demonstration of the failures of the Communist system, for all the world to see, we take no satisfaction in it, for it is, as your Mayor has said, an offense not only against history but an offense against humanity, separating families, dividing husbands and wives and brothers and sisters, and dividing a people who wish to be joined together.”\n— John F. Kennedy, speaking about the wall around West Berlin (”Ich bin ein Berliner-speech”)
”And any man who may be asked in this century what he did to make his life worth while, I think can respond with a good deal of pride and satisfaction: 'I served in the United States Navy.'”\n— John F. Kennedy (”Public Papers of the Presidents”, p.620)
”I think, therefore I am.”\n— Rene Descartes (Ambrose Bierce, ”The Cynic's Dictionary”)
”It is obvious that the state is a work of nature and that man is by nature a state-building being.”\n— Aristotle (”Politics”, I,2)
”Freedom, too, must have its master. Without a leader, Rome and Sparta perished.”\n— Friedrich Schiller (The Robbers, 1st act)
”Cowards die many times before their deaths; The valiant never taste of death but once.”\n— William Shakespeare (”Julius Caesar”, Act II scene ii.)
”To be or not to be, that is the question” \n— William Shakespeare (”Hamlet”, Act III scene i.)
”There is nothing either good or bad, but thinking makes it so.” \n— William Shakespeare (”Hamlet”, Act II scene ii.)
”Love, and do what thou wilt.” \n— Augustine of Hippo (”In epistulam Ioannis ad Parthos”, tractatus VII, 8)
